
# 命令行选项

This chapter describes command-line options available in all versions of the gnu assembler;
另见[9_硬件支持特性](./9_%E7%A1%AC%E4%BB%B6%E6%94%AF%E6%8C%81%E7%89%B9%E6%80%A7.md)针对特定机器架构的选项。  
If you are invoking as via the gnu C compiler, you can use the ‘-Wa’ option to pass arguments through to the assembler.
The assembler arguments must be separated from each other (and the ‘-Wa’) by commas. For example:  
    gcc -c -g -O -Wa,-alh,-L file.c
这会将两个选项传递给汇编器：“-alh”（发出标准输出列表）和“-L”（在符号表中保留本地符号）。  
Usually you do not need to use this ‘-Wa’ mechanism, since many compiler command-line options are automatically passed to the assembler by the compiler.
(You can call the gnu compiler driver with the ‘-v’ option to see precisely what options it passes to each compilation pass, including the assembler.)


## Enable Listings: -a[cdghlns]

These options enable listing output from the assembler. By itself, ‘-a’ requests high-level, assembly, and symbols listing.
 You can use other letters to select specific options for the list: ‘-ah’ requests a high-level language listing,
 ‘-al’ requests an output-program assembly listing, and ‘-as’ requests a symbol table listing. High-level listings require that a compiler
debugging option like ‘-g’ be used, and that assembly listings (‘-al’) be requested also.  
Use the ‘-ag’ option to print a first section with general assembly information, like as version, switches passed, or time stamp.  
Use the ‘-ac’ option to omit(v. 省略( omit的过去式和过去分词 )；遗漏；删掉；忘记做) false conditionals from a listing. Any lines which are not assembled because of a false .if (or .ifdef, or any other conditional), or a true .if followed by an .else, will be omitted from the listing.  
Use the ‘-ad’ option to omit debugging directives from the listing.  
Once you have specified one of these options, you can further control listing output and
its appearance using the directives .list, .nolist, .psize, .eject, .title, and .sbttl.
The ‘-an’ option turns off all forms processing. If you do not request listing output with
one of the ‘-a’ options, the listing-control directives have no effect.  
The letters after ‘-a’ may be combined into one option, e.g., ‘-aln’.  
Note if the assembler source is coming from the standard input (e.g., because it is being
created by gcc and the ‘-pipe’ command-line switch is being used) then the listing will not
contain any comments(n. 批评，意见，评论；评论( comment的名词复数 )；注释；谈话；说明) or 
preprocessor(n. 预处理程序) directives. This is because the listing code buffers
input source lines from stdin only after they have been preprocessed by the assembler. This
reduces memory usage and makes the code more efficient(adj. 效率高的；有能力的).

## --alternate

Begin in alternate macro mode，另见[7.4 .altmacro](7_%E6%B1%87%E7%BC%96%E6%8C%87%E4%BB%A4.md)

## -D

This option has no effect whatsoever, but it is accepted to make it more likely that scripts
written for other assemblers also work with as.

## Work Faster: -f

‘-f’ should only be used when assembling programs written by a (trusted(adj. 可\[置\]信的，无错的
v. 相信，信任( trust的过去式和过去分词 )；认为可靠；想；希望)) compiler. ‘-f’
stops the assembler from doing whitespace and comment preprocessing on the input file(s)
before assembling them.  
```
    Warning: if you use ‘-f’ when the files actually need to be preprocessed (if they contain comments, for example), as does not work correctly.
```

## .include Search Path: -I path

Use this option to add a path to the list of directories as searches for files specified(v. 指定( specify的过去式和过去分词 )；详述；提出…的条件；使具有特性) in .include directives([7.48 .include](./7_%E6%B1%87%E7%BC%96%E6%8C%87%E4%BB%A4.md)).You may use -I as many times
as necessary to include a variety(n. 多种多样；多样化；种类；综艺节目) of paths. The current working directory is always searched
first; after that, AS searches any ‘-I’ directories in the same order as they were specified
(left to right) on the command line.


## Difference Tables: -K

AS sometimes alters(v.(使)改变，更改，改动;修改(衣服使更合身)) the code emitted(v. 发出，放出( emit的过去式和过去分词 )) for directives of the form ‘.word sym1-sym2’. See
Section [7.111 .word](./7_%E6%B1%87%E7%BC%96%E6%8C%87%E4%BB%A4.md). You can use the ‘-K’ option if you want a warning issued
when this is done.

##  Include Local Symbols: -L

*Symbols beginning with system-specific local label prefixes, typically ‘.L’ for ELF systems or
‘L’ for traditional a.out systems, are called local symbols.*另见[5.3 Symbol Names](./5_%E7%AC%A6%E5%8F%B7.md). Normally you do not see such symbols when debugging, because they are intended for the use of programs (like compilers) that compose assembler programs, not for your
notice. Normally both AS and LD discard(v. 丢弃，抛弃n. 被抛弃的人/物) such symbols, so you do not normally debug with them.  
This option tells as to retain(vt. 保持；留在心中，记住；雇用；付定金保留) those local symbols in the object file. Usually if you do this you also tell the linker ld to preserve(v. 保持；保护；保险；腌制n. 蜜饯；果酱；腌菜；专属工作；保护区；私人渔猎场) those symbols.


## Configuring listing output: --listing

The listing feature(n. 特征；五官；特写；正片，故事片v. 以…为特征；由…主演；以…为主要内容；占重要地位) of the assembler can be enabled via(prep. 经由，经过；通过，凭借) the command-line switch ‘-a’.
This feature combines the input source file(s) with a hex dump of the corresponding(adj. 相应的，相关的v. 符合；相当于；通信) locations in the output object file,and displays them as a listing file. The format of this listing can be controlled by directives inside the assembler source(.list .title .sbttl .psize .eject) and also by the following switches:
```shell
    --listing-lhs-width=‘number’
        Sets the maximum width, in words, of the first line of the hex byte dump. This dump appears on the left hand side of the listing output.
    --listing-lhs-width2=‘number’
        Sets the maximum width, in words, of any further lines of the hex byte dump for a given input source line. If this value is not specified, it defaults to being the same as the value specified for ‘--listing-lhs-width’. If neither switch is used the default is to one.
    --listing-rhs-width=‘number’
        Sets the maximum width, in characters, of the source line that is displayed alongside the hex dump. The default value for this parameter is 100. The source line is displayed on the right hand side of the listing output.
    --listing-cont-lines=‘number’
        Sets the maximum number of continuation lines of hex dump that will be displayed for a given single line of source input. The default value is 4.
```


## Assemble in MRI Compatibility Mode: -M

The -M or --mri option selects MRI compatibility mode. This changes the syntax and
pseudo-op handling of as to make it compatible with the ASM68K assembler from Microtec
Research. The exact nature of the MRI syntax will not be documented here; see the MRI
manuals for more information. Note in particular that the handling of macros and macro
arguments is somewhat different. The purpose of this option is to permit assembling existing
MRI assembler code using as.


## Dependency Tracking: --MD

AS can generate a dependency file for the file it creates. This file consists of a single rule suitable for make describing the dependencies of the main source file.  
The rule is written to the file named in its argument.  
This feature is used in the automatic updating of makefiles.


## Output Section Padding

Normally the assembler will pad(vt. 给…装衬垫， 加垫子；填塞；踏平vi. 步行，放轻脚步走n. 垫，衬垫；护具；便签本；发射台) the end of each output section up to its alignment boundary(n. 边界，分界线). But this can waste space, which can be significant(adj. 重要的；显著的；意味深长的) on memory constrained(adj. 不舒服的，被强迫的，拘泥的v. 强迫( constrain的过去式和过去分词 )；强使；限制；约束) targets. So the --no-pad-sections option will disable this behaviour.


## Name the Object File: -o

There is always one object file output when you run as. By default it has the name a.out.
You use this option (which takes exactly(adv. 精确地，确切地；正是如此；（要求得到更多信息）究竟，到底) one filename) to give the object file a different
name.  
Whatever the object file is called, as overwrites any existing file of the same name.


## Join Data and Text Sections: -R

-R tells as to write the object file as if all data-section data lives in the text section. This is
only done at the very last moment: your binary data are the same, but data section parts
are relocated differently. The data section part of your object file is zero bytes long because
all its bytes are appended to the text section.  
When you specify -R it would be possible to generate shorter address displacements
(because we do not have to cross between text and data section).We refrain(vt. 抑制，克制n. （诗歌的）叠句，副歌；经常重复的评价（或抱怨）vi. 忍耐，节制) from doing
this simply for compatibility(n. 并存，相容；兼容性) with older versions of as. In future, -R may work this way.  
When as is configured for COFF or ELF output, this option is only useful if you use
sections named ‘.text’ and ‘.data’.  
-R is not supported for any of the HPPA targets. Using -R generates a warning from as.


##  Display Assembly Statistics: --statistics

Use ‘--statistics’ to display two statistics(n. 统计数字；统计学；统计数字（statistic的复数）) about the resources used by as: the maximum
amount of space allocated during the assembly (in bytes), and the total execution time
taken for the assembly (in cpu seconds)


## Compatible Output: --traditional-format

For some targets, the output of as is different in some ways from the output of some existing
assembler. This switch requests as to use the traditional format instead(adv. 替代；反而).  
For example, it disables the exception frame optimizations which as normally does by
default on gcc output.


## Announce Version: -v

You can find out what version of as is running by including the option ‘-v’ (which you can also spell as ‘-version’) on the command line.


##  Control Warnings: -W, --warn, --no-warn, --fatal-warnings

AS should never give a warning or error message when assembling compiler output. But
programs written by people often cause AS to give a warning that a particular(adj. 特定的；特殊的；格外的；挑剔的n. 细节；详细资料) assumption(n. 假定；承担；获得)
was made. All such warnings are directed(adj. 有指导的；有管理的；定向的；被控制的v. （用建议、指示、有益的情报等）指导( direct的过去式和过去分词 )；导演（戏剧或电影）；指示方向；把…对准（某方向或某人）) to the standard error file.  
If you use the -W and --no-warn options, no warnings are issued. This only affects the
warning messages: it does not change any particular of how as assembles your file. Errors,
which stop the assembly, are still reported.  
If you use the --fatal-warnings option, AS considers(v. 考虑( consider的第三人称单数 )；想；注意；看重) files that generate warnings to be
in error.  
You can switch these options off again by specifying --warn, which causes warnings to
be output as usual.


## Generate Object File in Spite of Errors: -Z

After an error message, as normally produces no output. If for some reason you are interested
in object file output even after as gives an error message on your program, use the ‘-Z’
option. If there are any errors, as continues anyways, and writes an object file after a final
warning message of the form ‘n errors, m warnings, generating bad object file.’
