
# Syntax

(n. 句法；句法规则\[分析\]；语构；语法)
This chapter describes the machine-independent syntax allowed in a source file. AS syntax is
similar to what many other assemblers use; it is inspired(adj. 有创造力的；品质优秀的；有雄心壮志的；（与名词、形容词以及副词构成形容词）受…影响的v. 鼓舞( inspire的过去式和过去分词 )；激励；赋予某人灵感；启迪) by the BSD 4.2 assembler, except
that as does not assemble Vax bit-fields.

## Preprocessing

The AS internal preprocessor:

- adjusts(v. （改变…以）适应，调整，校正( adjust的第三人称单数 )) and removes extra whitespace. It leaves one space or tab before the keywords on a line, and turns any other whitespace on the line into a single space.
- removes all comments, replacing them with a single space, or an appropriate(adj. 适当的；合适的v. 私占；盗用；挪用；拨出（专款）) number of newlines.
- converts character constants into the appropriate(adj. 适当的；合适的v. 私占；盗用；挪用；拨出（专款）) numeric values.

It does not do macro processing, include file handling, or anything else you may get from your C compiler’s preprocessor. You can do include file processing with the .include directive. You can use the gnu C compiler driver to get other “CPP” style preprocessing by giving the input file a ‘.S’ suffix.
See the ’Options Controlling the Kind of Output’ section of the GCC manual for more details [gcc doc](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Overall-Options.html#Overall-Options).  
Excess(n. 过量；无节制；免赔额adj. 过量的，额外的) whitespace, comments, and character constants cannot be used in the portions(n. 一部分( portion的名词复数 )；一份遗产（或赠与的财产）；分享的部份；嫁妆) of the input text that are not preprocessed.  
If the first line of an input file is #NO_APP or if you use the ‘-f’ option, whitespace
and comments are not removed from the input file. Within an input file, you can ask for
whitespace and comment removal in specific portions of the by putting a line that says
#APP before the text that may contain whitespace or comments, and putting a line that
says #NO_APP after this text. This feature is mainly intend to support asm statements in
compilers whose output is otherwise free of comments and whitespace.


## Whitespace

Whitespace is one or more blanks or tabs, in any order. Whitespace is used to separate
symbols, and to make programs neater for people to read. Unless within character constants, any whitespace means the same as exactly one space.


## Comments

There are two ways of rendering(n. 翻译；表演；（墙壁的）初涂，打底；（建筑物等）透视图vt. 致使；表演；打底(render的ing形式)vi. 给予补偿(render的ing形式)) comments to as. In both cases the comment is equivalent(adj. 相等的，相同的n. 等同物；对应物) to one space.  
Anything from ‘/*’ through the next ‘*/’ is a comment. This means you may not nest these comments.  
Anything from a line comment character up to the next newline is considered a comment and is ignored.
The line comment character is target specific, and some targets multiple comment characters.  

If the line comment character is the hash sign (‘#’) then it still has the special ability to
enable and disable preprocessing (see Section 3.1 [Preprocessing], page 31) and to specify logical line numbers:   
To be compatible with past assemblers, lines that begin with ‘#’ have a special interpretation. Following the ‘#’ should be an absolute expression (see Chapter 6 [Expressions], page 47): the logical line number of the next line. Then a string (see Section 3.6.1.1 [Strings], page 33) is allowed: if present it is a new logical file name. The rest of the line, if any, should be whitespace. If the first non-whitespace characters on the line are not numeric, the line is ignored.
(Just like a comment.)
```assembly
    # This is an ordinary comment.
    # 42-6 "new_file_name" # New logical file name
    # This is logical line # 36.
```
This feature is deprecated, and may disappear from future versions of as.


## Symbols

A symbol is one or more characters chosen from the set of all letters (both upper and lower
case), digits and the three characters ‘_.$’.On most machines, you can also use $ in symbol
names; exceptions are noted in [9_硬件支持特性](./9_%E7%A1%AC%E4%BB%B6%E6%94%AF%E6%8C%81%E7%89%B9%E6%80%A7.md), page 95.No symbol may
begin with a digit. Case is significant. There is no length limit; all characters are significant.Multibyte characters are supported, but note that the setting of the --multibyte-handling option might prevent their use. Symbols are delimited by characters not in that set, or by
the beginning of a file (since the source program must end with a newline, the end of a file is not a possible symbol delimiter).  
Symbol names may also be enclosed in double quote " characters. In such cases any characters are allowed,  If a double quote character is to be
included in the symbol name it must be preceded by a backslash \ character.


## Statements

A statement ends at a newline character (‘\n’) or a line separator character. The line
separator character is target specific and described in the Syntax section of each target’s
documentation. Not all targets support a line separator character. The newline or line
separator character is considered to be part of the preceding statement. Newlines and
separators within character constants are an exception: they do not end statements.  
It is an error to end any statement with end-of-file: the last character of any input file should be a newline.  
An empty statement is allowed, and may include whitespace. It is ignored.  
A statement begins with zero or more labels, optionally followed by a key symbol which
determines what kind of statement it is.The key symbol determines the syntax of the rest
of the statement. If the symbol begins with a dot ‘.’ then the statement is an assembler
directive:If the symbol begins with a dot ‘.’ then the statement is an assembler
directive: typically valid for any computer. If the symbol begins with a letter the statement
is an assembly language instruction: it assembles into a machine language instruction.
Different versions of as for different computers recognize different instructions. In fact,
the same symbol may represent(v. 代表；象征；维护…的利益；相当于；描绘；正式提出) a different instruction in a different computer’s assembly
language.  
A label is a symbol immediately followed by a colon (:). Whitespace before a label or
after a colon is permitted, but you may not have whitespace between a label’s symbol and
its colon.  
For HPPA targets, labels need not be immediately followed by a colon, but the definition
of a label must begin in column zero. This also implies that only one label may be defined
on each line.  
```assembly
    label: .directive followed by something
    another_label: # This is an empty statement.
    instruction operand_1, operand_2, ...
```


## Constants

A constant is a number, written so that its value is known by inspection(n. 检查；检验；视察；检阅), without knowing
any context. Like this:
```
    .byte 74, 0112, 092, 0x4A, 0X4a, ’J, ’\J # All the same value.
    .ascii "Ring the bell\7" # A string constant.
    .octa 0x123456789abcdef0123456789ABCDEF0 # A bignum.
    .float 0f-314159265358979323846264338327\
    95028841971.693993751E-40 # - pi, a flonum.
```

### Character Constants

There are two kinds of character constants. A character stands for one character in one
byte and its value may be used in numeric expressions. String constants (properly called
string literals) are potentially(adv. 潜在地；可能地；<古>强有力地；权威地) many bytes and their values may not be used in arithmetic(n. 算术；数据统计adj. 算术的；运算的)
expressions.

#### Strings

A string is written between double-quotes. It may contain double-quotes or null characters.
The way to get special characters into a string is to escape these characters(转义字符): precede them
with a backslash ‘\’ character. For example ‘\\’ represents one backslash: the first \ is
an escape which tells as to interpret the second character literally as a backslash (which
prevents as from recognizing the second \ as an escape character). The complete list of
escapes follows.  
```C
    // \b \n \r \t \\ \" 
```
Which characters are escapable(adj. 可以避免), and what those escapes represent(v. 代表；象征；维护…的利益；相当于；描绘；正式提出), varies widely among
assemblers. The current set is what we think the BSD 4.2 assembler recognizes, and is
a subset of what most C compilers recognize. If you are in doubt, do not use an escape
sequence.

#### Characters

### Number Constants

AS distinguishes(v. 辨别，区别( distinguish的第三人称单数 )；使出众；（凭任何感觉器官）识别出；看清) three kinds of numbers according to how they are stored in the target
machine. Integers are numbers that would fit into an int in the C language. Bignums are
integers, but they are stored in more than 32 bits. Flonums are floating point numbers,
described below.

#### Integers

A binary integer is ‘0b’ or ‘0B’ followed by zero or more of the binary digits ‘01’.  
An octal integer is ‘0’ followed by zero or more of the octal digits (‘01234567’).  
A decimal integer starts with a non-zero digit followed by zero or more digits (‘0123456789’).  
A hexadecimal integer is ‘0x’ or ‘0X’ followed by one or more hexadecimal digits chosen from ‘0123456789abcdefABCDEF’.  
Integers have the usual values. To denote a negative integer, use the prefix operator ‘-’ discussed under expressions.

#### Bignums

A bignum has the same syntax and semantics as an integer except that the number (or its
negative) takes more than 32 bits to represent in binary. The distinction is made because
in some places integers are permitted while bignums are not.

#### Flonums
