
# Sections and Relocation

## Background

Roughly(adv. 粗略地；大体上；大致上；粗暴地), a section is a range of addresses, with no gaps(n. 缺口( gap的名词复数 )；不同；间隔；\[植物学\]裂); all data “in” those addresses is treated the same for some particular(adj. 特定的；特殊的；格外的；挑剔的n. 细节；详细资料) purpose. For example there may be a “read only” section.  
The linker ld reads many object files (partial(adj. 部分的；偏袒的；钟爱的) programs) and combines their contents to form(n. 类型；形态，外形；表格；状态v. 形成，构成；组建，排列) a runnable program. When as emits an object file, the partial program is assumed(adj. 假装的；假冒的；假定的；被承担的 v. 取得（权力）( assume的过去式和过去分词 )；假设；假定；呈现) to start at address 0. ld assigns the final addresses for the partial program, so that different partial programs do not overlap. This is actually an oversimplification, but it suffices(v. 足够( suffice的第三人称单数 )；满足…的需要) to explain how as uses sections.  
ld moves blocks of bytes of your program to their run-time addresses. These blocks slide to their run-time addresses as rigid units; their length does not change and neither does the order of bytes within them. Such a rigid unit is called a section. Assigning runtime addresses to sections is called relocation. It includes the task of adjusting mentions of object-file addresses so they refer to the proper run-time addresses. For the H8/300, and for the Renesas / SuperH SH, as pads sections if needed to ensure they end on a word (sixteen bit) boundary.  
**An object file written by as has at least three sections, any of which may be empty. These are named text, data and bss sections.**  
When it generates COFF or ELF output, as can also generate whatever other named sections you specify using the ‘.section’ directive If you do not use any directives that place output in the ‘.text’ or ‘.data’ sections, these sections still exist, but are empty.  

Additionally, as uses different names for the standard text, data, and bss sections
when generating SOM output. Program text is placed into the ‘\$CODE\$’ section, data
into ‘\$DATA\$’, and BSS into ‘\$BSS\$’.  
**Within the object file, the text section starts at address 0, the data section follows, and
the bss section follows the data section.**  
**When generating either SOM or ELF output files on the HPPA, the text section starts
at address 0, the data section at address 0x4000000, and the bss section follows the data
section.**  
To let ld know which data changes when the sections are relocated, and how to change
that data, as also writes to the object file details of the relocation needed. To perform
relocation ld must know, each time an address in the object file is mentioned:
- Where in the object file is the beginning of this reference to an address?
- How long (in bytes) is this reference?
- Which section does the address refer to? What is the numeric value of (address) − (start-address of section)?
- Is the reference to an address “Program-Counter relative”?

In fact, every address as ever uses is expressed as
```
    (section) + (offset into section)
```

## Linker Sections

ld deals with just four kinds of sections, summarized below.  

|Name| Describe|
|:-:|:-:|
|named sections||
|text section||
|data section||
|bss section||
|absolute section||
|undefined section||

## Assembler Internal Sections

These sections are meant only for the internal use of as. They have no meaning at run-time.
You do not really need to know about these sections for most purposes; but they can be
mentioned in as warning messages, so it might be helpful to have an idea of their meanings
to as. These sections are used to permit the value of every expression in your assembly
language program to be a section-relative address.  

|Name|Describe|
|:-:|:-:|
|ASSEMBLER-INTERNAL-LOGIC-ERROR!||
|expr section||


## Sub-Sections

Assembled bytes conventionally fall into two sections: text and data. You may have separate
groups of data in named sections that you want to end up near to each other in the object
file, even though they are not contiguous in the assembler source. as allows you to use
subsections for this purpose. Within each section, there can be numbered subsections with
values from 0 to 8192. Objects assembled into the same subsection go into the object file
together with other objects in the same subsection. For example, a compiler might want
to store constants in the text section, but might not want to have them interspersed with
the program being assembled. In this case, the compiler could issue a ‘.text 0’ before each
section of code being output, and a ‘.text 1’ before each group of constants being output.  
Subsections are optional. If you do not use subsections, everything goes in subsection
number zero.  
Each subsection is zero-padded up to a multiple of four bytes. (Subsections may be
padded a different amount on different flavors of as.)  
Subsections appear in your object file in numeric order, lowest numbered to highest.
(All this to be compatible with other people’s assemblers.) The object file contains no
representation of subsections; ld and other programs that manipulate object files see no
trace of them. They just see all your text subsections as a text section, and all your data
subsections as a data section.  
To specify which subsection you want subsequent statements assembled into, use a numeric argument to specify it, in a ‘.text expression’ or a ‘.data expression’ statement.
When generating COFF output, you can also use an extra subsection argument with arbitrary named sections: ‘.section name, expression’. When generating ELF output, you
can also use the .subsection directive (see Section 7.96 [SubSection], page 84) to specify a subsection: ‘.subsection expression’. Expression should be an absolute expression  (see Chapter 6 [Expressions], page 47). If you just say ‘.text’ then ‘.text 0’ is assumed.
Likewise ‘.data’ means ‘.data 0’. Assembly begins in text 0. For instance:  
```asm
.text 0 # The default subsection is text 0 anyway.
.ascii "This lives in the first text subsection. *"
.text 1
.ascii "But this lives in the second text subsection."
.data 0
.ascii "This lives in the data section,"
.ascii "in the first data subsection."
.text 0
.ascii "This lives in the first text section,"
.ascii "immediately following the asterisk (*)."
```
Each section has a location counter incremented by one for every byte assembled into
that section. Because subsections are merely a convenience restricted to as there is no
concept of a subsection location counter. There is no way to directly manipulate a location
counter—but the .align directive changes it, and any label definition captures its current
value. The location counter of the section where statements are being assembled is said to
be the active location counter.

##  bss Section

The bss section is used for local common variable storage. You may allocate address space in
the bss section, but you may not dictate data to load into it before your program executes.
When your program starts running, all the contents of the bss section are zeroed bytes.  
The .lcomm pseudo-op defines a symbol in the bss section[7.53 .lcomm](./7_%E6%B1%87%E7%BC%96%E6%8C%87%E4%BB%A4.md);  
The .comm pseudo-op may be used to declare a common symbol, which is another form
of uninitialized symbol[7.13 .comm](./7_%E6%B1%87%E7%BC%96%E6%8C%87%E4%BB%A4.md);
