

# Symbols

Symbols are a central concept: the programmer uses symbols to name things, the linker
uses symbols to link, and the debugger uses symbols to debug.
```
    Warning: as does not place symbols in the object file in the same order they
    were declared. This may break some debuggers.
```

## Labels
A label is written as a symbol immediately followed by a colon ‘:’. The symbol then
represents(v. 表现( represent的第三人称单数 )；代表；体现；作为……的代表) the current value of the active location counter, and is, for example, a suitable
instruction operand. You are warned if you use the same symbol to represent two different
locations: the first definition overrides any other definitions.  
On the HPPA, the usual form for a label need not be immediately followed by a colon,
but instead must start in column zero. Only one label may be defined on a single line.
To work around this, the HPPA version of as also provides a special directive .label for
defining labels more flexibly(adv. 易曲地，柔软地；灵活地).


##  Giving Symbols Other Values

A symbol can be given an arbitrary value by writing a symbol, followed by an equals sign
‘=’, followed by an expression. This is equivalent(adj. 相等的，相同的 n. 等同物；对应物) to using the .set directive. In the same way, using a double
equals sign ‘=’‘=’ here represents an equivalent of the .eqv directive. Blackfin does not support symbol assignment with ‘=’.

## Symbol Names

Symbol names begin with a letter or with one of ‘._’. On most machines, you can also use
$ in symbol names; exceptions are noted in [Chapter 9 Machine Dependencies](./9_%E7%A1%AC%E4%BB%B6%E6%94%AF%E6%8C%81%E7%89%B9%E6%80%A7.md).
That character may be followed by any string of digits, letters, dollar signs (unless otherwise
noted for a particular target machine), and underscores. These restrictions do not apply
when quoting symbol names by ‘"’, which is permitted for most targets. Escaping characters
in quoted symbol names with ‘\’ generally extends only to ‘\’ itself and ‘"’, at the time of
writing.  
Case of letters is significant: foo is a different symbol name than Foo.  
Symbol names do not start with a digit. An exception to this rule is made for Local Labels. See below.  
Multibyte characters are supported, but note that the setting of the
multibyte-handling option might prevent(v. 阻碍；预防) their use.To generate a symbol
name containing multibyte characters enclose it within double quotes and use escape
codes. cf See Section [3.6.1.1 Strings](./3_%E8%AF%AD%E6%B3%95.md). Generating a multibyte symbol name from
a label is not currently supported.  
Each symbol has exactly one name. Each name in an assembly language program refers
to exactly one symbol. You may use that symbol name any number of times in a program.

- Local Symbol Names  
A local symbol is any symbol beginning with certain local label prefixes. By default, the
local label prefix is ‘.L’ for ELF systems or ‘L’ for traditional a.out systems, but each target
may have its own set of local label prefixes. On the HPPA local symbols begin with ‘L$’.
**Local symbols are defined and used within the assembler, but they are normally not
saved in object files. Thus, they are not visible when debugging.** You may use the ‘-L’
option (see Section [2.7 Include Local Symbols](./2_%E5%91%BD%E4%BB%A4%E8%A1%8C%E9%80%89%E9%A1%B9.md)) to retain the local symbols in the
object files.

- Local Labels  
Local labels are different from local symbols. Local labels help compilers and programmers
use names temporarily(adv. 暂时地；临时地). They create symbols which are guaranteed(v. 担保（guarantee的过去式和过去分词）adj. 有保证的；有人担保的) to be unique over the
entire scope of the input source code and which can be referred to by a simple notation(n. 记号，标记法).
To define a local label, write a label of the form ‘N:’ (where N represents any non-negative
integer). To refer to the most recent previous definition of that label write ‘Nb’, using the
same number as when you defined the label. To refer to the next definition of a local label,
write ‘Nf’. The ‘b’ stands for “backwards” and the ‘f’ stands for “forwards”.
There is no restriction on how you can use these labels, and you can reuse them too. So
that it is possible to repeatedly define the same local label (using the same number ‘N’),
although you can only refer to the most recently defined local label of that number (for a
backwards reference) or the next definition of a specific local label for a forward reference.
It is also worth noting that the first 10 local labels (‘0:’. . .‘9:’) are implemented in a slightly
more efficient manner than the others.  
There is no restriction(n. 限制，限定；拘束，束缚；管制) on how you can use these labels, and you can reuse them too. So
that it is possible to repeatedly(adv. 反复地，重复地；再三地；屡次地；不停地) define the same local label (using the same number ‘N’),
although you can only refer to the most recently defined local label of that number (for a
backwards reference) or the next definition of a specific local label for a forward reference.
It is also worth noting that the first 10 local labels (‘0:’. . .‘9:’) are implemented in a slightly
more efficient manner than the others.

Here is an example:

> 1: branch 1f  
2: branch 1b  
1: branch 2f  
2: branch 1b  

Which is the equivalent of:
> label_1: branch label_3  
label_2: branch label_1  
label_3: branch label_4  
label_4: branch label_3

Local label names are only a notational device. They are immediately transformed into
more conventional symbol names before the assembler uses them. The symbol names are
stored in the symbol table, appear in error messages, and are optionally emitted to the
object file. The names are constructed using these parts:  

|Name|Describe|
|||
|local label prefix||
|number||
|C-B||


- Dollar Local Labels
On some targets as also supports an even more local form of local labels called dollar labels.
These labels go out of scope (i.e., they become undefined) as soon as a non-local label is
defined. Thus they remain valid for only a small region of the input source code. Normal
local labels, by contrast, remain in scope for the entire file, or until they are redefined by
another occurrence of the same local label.  
Dollar labels are defined in exactly the same way as ordinary local labels, except that
they have a dollar sign suffix to their numeric value, e.g., ‘55$:’.  
They can also be distinguished from ordinary local labels by their transformed names
which use ASCII character ‘\001’ (control-A) as the magic character to distinguish them
from ordinary labels. For example, the fifth definition of ‘6$’ may be named ‘.L6C-A5’.


## The Special Dot Symbol

**The special symbol ‘.’ refers to the current address that as is assembling into**. Thus, the
expression ‘melvin: .long .’ defines melvin to contain its own address. Assigning a value
to . is treated the same as a .org directive. Thus, the expression ‘.=.+4’ is the same as
saying ‘.space 4’.


## Symbol Attributes

Every symbol has, as well as its name, the attributes “Value” and “Type”. Depending on
output format, symbols can also have auxiliary attributes.
If you use a symbol without defining it, as assumes zero for all these attributes, and
probably won’t warn you. This makes the symbol an externally defined symbol, which is
generally what you would want.

### Value

The value of a symbol is (usually) 32 bits. For a symbol which labels a location in the
text, data, bss or absolute sections the value is the number of addresses from the start of
that section to the label. Naturally for text, data and bss sections the value of a symbol
changes as ld changes section base addresses during linking. Absolute symbols’ values do
not change during linking: that is why they are called absolute.  
The value of an undefined symbol is treated in a special way. If it is 0 then the symbol
is not defined in this assembler source file, and ld tries to determine its value from other
files linked into the same program. You make this kind of symbol simply by mentioning a
symbol name without defining it. A non-zero value represents a .comm common declaration(n. 公告，宣言；表白；书面声明).
The value is how much common storage to reserve, in bytes (addresses). The symbol refers
to the first address of the allocated storage.


### Type

The type attribute of a symbol contains relocation (section) information, any flag settings
indicating that a symbol is external, and (optionally), other information for linkers and
debuggers. The exact format depends on the object-code output format in use.

###  Symbol Attributes: a.out

#### Descriptor

This is an arbitrary 16-bit value. You may establish a symbol’s descriptor value by using a
.desc statement (see Section [7.19 .desc](./7_%E6%B1%87%E7%BC%96%E6%8C%87%E4%BB%A4.md), page 60). A descriptor value means nothing to
as.

#### Other

This is an arbitrary 8-bit value. It means nothing to as.

### Symbol Attributes for COFF

The COFF format supports a multitude of auxiliary symbol attributes; like the primary
symbol attributes, they are set between .def and .endef directives.

#### Primary Attributes

The symbol name is set with .def; the value and type, respectively, with .val and .type.

#### Auxiliary Attributes

The as directives .dim, .line, .scl, .size, .tag, and .weak can generate auxiliary symbol
table information for COFF.


####  Symbol Attributes for SOM

The SOM format for the HPPA supports a multitude of symbol attributes set with the
.EXPORT and .IMPORT directives.
The attributes are described in HP9000 Series 800 Assembly Language Reference Manual
(HP 92432-90001) under the IMPORT and EXPORT assembler directive documentation.