
# Expressions

An expression specifies an address or numeric value. Whitespace may precede and/or follow
an expression.  
The result of an expression must be an absolute number, or else an offset into a particular(adj. 特定的；特殊的；格外的；挑剔的 n. 细节；详细资料)
section. If an expression is not absolute, and there is not enough information when as sees
the expression to know its section, a second pass over the source program might be necessary
to interpret the expression—but the second pass is currently not implemented. as aborts
with an error message in this situation(n. 情况；地理位置；职业).


## Empty Expressions

An empty expression has no value: it is just whitespace or null. Wherever an absolute
expression is required, you may omit the expression, and as assumes a value of (absolute)
0. This is compatible(adj. 兼容的；可共存的；和睦相处的) with other assemblers.


## Integer Expressions

An integer expression is one or more arguments delimited by operators.


### Arguments

Arguments are symbols, numbers or subexpressions. In other contexts arguments are sometimes 
called “arithmetic operands”. In this manual, to avoid confusing them with the
“instruction operands” of the machine language, we use the term “argument” to refer to
parts of expressions only, reserving the word “operand” to refer only to machine instruction
operands.  
Symbols are evaluated to yield {section NNN} where section is one of text, data, bss,
absolute, or undefined. NNN is a signed, 2’s complement 32 bit integer.  
Numbers are usually integers.  
A number can be a flonum or bignum. In this case, you are warned that only the low
order 32 bits are used, and as pretends these 32 bits are an integer. You may write 
integermanipulating instructions that act on exotic constants, compatible with other assemblers.  
Subexpressions are a left parenthesis ‘(’ followed by an integer expression, followed by a
right parenthesis ‘)’; or a prefix operator followed by an argument.


### Operators

Operators are arithmetic functions, like + or %. Prefix operators are followed by an argument.
Infix operators appear between their arguments. Operators may be preceded and/or followed by whitespace.

### Prefix Operator

AS has the following prefix operators. They each take one argument, which must be absolute.

| Prefix Operator | Describe |
|:-:|:-:|
|-|Negation. Two’s complement negation.|
|~|Complementation. Bitwise not.|


### Infix Operators

Infix operators take two arguments, one on either side.
 Operators have precedence, but operations with equal precedence are performed left to right.
 Apart from + or -, both arguments must be absolute, and the result is absolute.

 1. Highest Precedence: \* / % << >>
 2. Intermediate precedence: | & ^ !
 3. Low Precedence: + - == <> != < > >= <=
 4. Lowest Precedence: && ||